Welcome back.
Fantastic God.
People you know I was thinking Barney is doing already well we've got some great animations jarndyce
can take damage.
Has lives and coins.
But you know what.
Money doesn't have noise in this video.
Let's put sounds on our game.
By the way quick technical point.
I don't really mean noise.
Sound engineers get really upset when you say that noise is a sound you don't want.
Let's bring this out but the noise is a song from my teenage years and I quite miss it so very nice
to do this.
We need to talk about three notes audio stream player audio stream player to me an audio stream player
3D.
Makes sense right.
What's the difference.
The difference is positional information audio stream player has no positional information.
If you use it it will just play the sound equally through all your speakers.
It's not gonna take into account things like distance it's not going to take into account things like
stereo.
It's just going to play the sound audio streamed player 2D and 3D do have positional information.
If we run a sound effect of bunny in audio stream player 2D God is going to calculate where money is
in relation to the camera and play the sound there.
In this case it's not what I want.
But he jumps I want the sound of jumping.
I don't want some jumping from the left hand side of the right hand side of the screen it just gets
confusing.
On the other hand if I was doing something where there's lots of characters or pieces onscreen doing
something then 2D or 3D position information makes a lot more sense.
In our case I'm going to be using audio stream player not to do your 3D so that's going to go to first
where I do create a category for all these different sound effects and audio stream players.
So let's create a note to be a cocreate node.
But I've been using notI so far.
Let's keep it consistent and I'm going to call this sounds.
And within that that's put a child node.
That's an audio stream player.
Let's call this music we call it background music BGM and all the rest of it.
Now we actually have two possibilities here because I couldn't decide which one to pick up.
Your options are chiptune adventure and summer park.
And if you want to hear what they sound like you can drag one of them into the stream over here and
hit play.
And then this summer park.
Which brings me to the challenge.
Quite an early challenge.
This time I'd like you to pick your background music it's going to make a huge difference to how your
game feels.
So give chiptune adventures one and some a park one a listen and then decide which one of them are going
to use or if you want.
You could use other music.
The music I've picked is on the creative commons zero licence so we can use it commercially without
any kind of attribution or any problem like that.
I have already linked to the sites where I got them but I will ignore them again in this video.
If you want to use something else.
Be advised.
You cannot use an MP 3.
You'll have to use a web file or an oh g.g. because MP 3s are not natively supported by God.
So if you want to use I don't know that beautiful people by Marilyn Manson.
Pick a song you like.
You will have to convert it and know that by doing that you can't use that commercially.
That's just for your own enjoyment.
Fine so pick the song you want and put it in your game and make sure that the music actually plays when
the game starts having back from it that doesn't play doesn't work.
So pause the video pick your music get it playing and the game starts and when you come back I'll show
you how I do.
I'm a Mac.
Okay so I've already created that music.
Now that's easy enough.
I'm actually kind of feeling saal Park.
Let's find out.
Maybe I'm feeling Chips's and Fletcher.
I'm definitely feeling some a park knowledge Hitchings place today.
I do like cheap tunes but not today.
If not also the volume by the way I can just use the decimal on it get but minus 10 and now when I play
it nice chill back.
Alright so how when it was playing just a couple days.
I can go into games say Judy create something in the ready function say now play it but an easier way
involves no script at all.
I could just press auto play now and to play the game.
Isn't that wonderful.
No lines of code.
Just use the inspector got older for me.
Fantastic.
What I am going to do is actually put this at minus 25.
That's not how I have an end game but it means that I can talk to you while I'm running the game.
Let's put it's more sounds.
So next on what to put in is just another audio stream player.
Remember it is a two day and I'm gonna call this jump.
SFX and we already have jump one right here.
These three sound effects are all from kennyi Audio packs which we have linked to in the past and are
linked to again.
I'll also give you an option of how to generate your own sound effects later in the video.
Alright so we have jump and I would put this at minus 10.
I think there's a good level.
Well I'm not going to do is you playing auto play however however what I am going to do is give this
a script.
I'm going to put it in scripts not in scenes create it.
There it is.
Why am I doing this because I want to create a global reference to it.
I want to create a jump SFX.
Why am I doing this.
Because were trying to image string referencing in this project so let's make that as consistent as
we can.
So global dot jump SFX equals sulf great.
And let's do the same thing for the other son of God which would be coin and pain.
So let's create two new audio string players one and two wide and duplicate it because it would also
have duplicated the script and that would have just been a little bit more extra What put you down here.
Great.
When to call you pain.
As a fax.
And quain SFX.
Let's go to global.
I will put those two in so variable pain is a effects and variable coin.
SFX two news groups one not it seems you are in scope's.
And one more.
Variables mis named as negligibly SFX light effects.
There we go.
Cool stuff.
Great.
All three of them are done let's save that.
And they don't need these open anymore.
They won't have anything else in their script.
Those are just there to initialize them.
OK let's use them.
Let's go in to the.
Play edgy when the player is jumping when you're actually moving.
Let's play this sound.
Now I could put this in game state but this does feel like it should go here some global dots jump as
effects play.
Let's see if that works.
Seems to work.
Well it's kind all out and I'm for the music too quite so let's change that a little bit.
Job effects must be at minus 15.
I think this a go on and the music wants to be at minus 15 too.
Let's see if that works.
Alright.
Is up next now.
Coins are not picked up anywhere in this group so let's actually put that in the script.
That makes sense.
Some global dot coin SFX dot play and that's probably me a little loud.
There's nothing actually in here.
I need to actually put the sound effect in.
Oh that would have been embarrassing.
I think we were way too loud.
Minus 10.
Let's pitch.
Don't change the pitch.
Minus 10.
Great.
Let's see if that works.
We go we have sounds.
Last I going to do is a pained sound and that will be in games under hurt because that feels a good
place.
So global adopts pain.
SFX stopped play and let's make sure we actually have that sound effect.
Then we notice.
OK.
Let's see if that works so that should all be set.
Ah ha.
You hear that.
That sound effect is looping.
Pain is looping why is pain looping.
Well when God imported these sounds it made some decisions and one of them was Lupa sound effects unless
you're told otherwise.
We need to tell God otherwise.
So head over to this import.
Next scene and uncheck lip.
And you know what let's hit reimport And let's check that jump isn't looping because it might give us
weird things and coin's isn't looping because that's not dugit isn't looping.
Looping is turned off.
Correct.
Kennedy's effects is a web file not a g.g..
So that's why it's looking a little different here.
But let's see if that's any better.
Change the sound valances for those so let's keep most 10 feels good.
Ten minus 10 minus 15 okay minus 15 looks good.
This is not the volume might have it in the actual game but it makes it easier for me to talk to you.
Let's see.
Do we have sound effects music.
And we have eight.
One thing we do have is the music ending here.
There's a couple of ways we could do that.
We could have a singleton that plays the music all the way through.
We could have different music here.
But for now I think that's great work before we go.
Here's a tip from our bnz.
Dave from discord.
Maybe you don't want to use these sound effects.
Well you could use JF X are not frozen fact or document and to provide a link.
This is handy little site that can make little sound effects for you and you can tweak them and get
exact sound effect you want.
If you don't.
The ones I provided.
Make your own sound effects and really make this game your own.
Which brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we've looked at the three types of audio stream player knows how to change on a sound
as looping and how you use auto play without using any script to just get a sound to automatically play.
If you've used different sounds or music I'd love to hear what you've got so please share them with
the community and great work and I'll see you in the next year.